Build Notes

## 22/07/2026
- Added back in a line on the app code around foreign keys, this got omitted yesterday, but it needed to go back in.
- Created a recoveryVault module, including a backup policy. This was relatively straightforward, as I am getting more used to the bicep now. I left the parameters for the vault as singular strings because, similar to the container registry, there is only ever going to be one created in this project. I would have made them an object and looped through them, if there was any chance of needing more created, but on this project that is not needed. Sources: 1 - [Microsoft.RecoveryServices vaults 2026-05-01](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.recoveryservices/2026-05-01/vaults?pivots=deployment-language-bicep) 2 - [Quickstart: Create a Recovery Services vault by using Bicep](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/site-recovery/quickstart-create-vault-bicep?tabs=CLI) 3 - [Microsoft.RecoveryServices vaults/backupPolicies](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.recoveryservices/vaults/backuppolicies?pivots=deployment-language-bicep)
- In the portal, I then linked the storage account to the recovery vault and ran the first backup of the File Share.
- I used Azure Storage Explorer to add a larger test db file than the one I worked with yesterday, so I could stress test the set up a bit more. This was actually useful because I still have some issues with the database locking when more complex queries were being made (like accessing the transaction history, or lists of accounts). This led to me adding in an extra couple of lines of code into the app, which again, seemed to improve how the app was running. The app feels in a stable and usable condition now, so when I have added some permissions for access, I would be happy to add my real database file into the storage account.

## 21/07/2026
- Ran a what-if depolyment from the last few days updates; it reported no issues. The actual deployment failed though due to race conditions where the storage wasn't ready in time for the container app to use. I added in a dependency in the containerApps module for the storage module to finish which solved that.
- I ran into some issues at this point relating to my apps usage of SQLite over Azure Files. I knew from the beginning was potentially going to cause issues. There was a noticeable change in behaviour between the demo copy (local db file)and the personal copy (db file now mounted in file share). The demo version was fine, but the personal copy was immediately failing with a database locked error.
- Because this error was moreso related to my app than the Azure side of things, I decided to consult with Gemini for any potential solutions. It recommended some minor changes to how the connection strings were handled. After I made the code changes to the app, I rebuilt the docker image and pushed it to the container registry.
- Those changes seem to have resolved the issue and the personal app loaded up ok.
- I then added some entries into the app (new accounts, transfers etc) and tested to see if the app would retain the data after both revision restarts and also from a scale from zero; both of which were successful.

## 19/07/2026
- Got rid of the `managedEnvironmentReqStorage` parameter. I decided that it would be best to put a flag in the managedEnvironment paramaters and have the storage module loop over that, checking against the flag to see if it should run or not. The only issue was again knowing what syntax to use, because i needed to loop and have a decision point inside the loop, which I haven't done up until now in this project so I had research that. Sources: 1 - [Iterative loops in Bicep](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/bicep/loops)

## 18/07/2026
- Linked up the storage creation to the managed environment. The syntax was unclear to me for the accountKey property, it was right at the bottom of Source 1, but it took a while to work that out. 
- I had to change the containerApps module to add the storage details. This was interesting because I initially set it up passing the individual parameters through to the module, however I eventually realised that this was not going to work because the same value would get passed through for each of the two environments in the loop (the demo and personal) when only one needs a storage mount at all. I toyed with a few ideas, including passing a blank string through, but my research showed that would likely cause failures. Eventually I came to the conclusion that if I build those arrays in the parameters file itself, then either the values, or blank arrays, which would avoid the blank string issue. This took some time to sort out, so again I have not tested this element yet.
- I have also noticed that the parameter `managedEnvironmentReqStorage` is somewhat insufficient and redundant. If I ever wanted to add a second one then the current logic would break. It needs to be an array, or dynamically check against the `requiredAppServices` array. I'm still considering the cleanest solution right now, but I will look to change this before I run a test as well. Sources: 1 - [Microsoft.App managedEnvironments/storages](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.app/managedenvironments/storages?pivots=deployment-language-bicep) 2 - [Microsoft.App containerApps](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.app/containerapps?pivots=deployment-language-bicep)

## 16/07/2026
- Created storage module. This was quite straightforward, although to be transparent I have not tested it yet. I do still need to create the link between Container Apps and the File Share. I will do that, and the testing, in the next session. Sources: 1 - [Microsoft.Storage storageAccounts](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.storage/storageaccounts?pivots=deployment-language-bicep) 2 - [Microsoft.Storage storageAccounts/fileServices](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.storage/storageaccounts/fileservices?pivots=deployment-language-bicep) 3 - [Microsoft.Storage storageAccounts/fileServices/shares](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.storage/storageaccounts/fileservices/shares?pivots=deployment-language-bicep)

## 15/07/2026
- Uploaded the application code to repo
- Uploaded application image to Azure Container Registry using `docker tag` and `docker push` commands
- Created identity module. The only difficulty here was getting the role definition ID, for which I eventually learned that I had to use `az role definition list --name "AcrPull" --query "[].name" --output tsv` and then wrap the ID itself in the subscription level function. Sources: 1 [Microsoft.ManagedIdentity userAssignedIdentities 2024-11-30](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.managedidentity/2024-11-30/userassignedidentities?pivots=deployment-language-bicep) 2 [Microsoft.Authorization roleAssignments](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.authorization/roleassignments?pivots=deployment-language-bicep)
- Updated containerApp module. The most difficult thing here was the `userAssignedIdentities` field which ultimately needed the following entry `{'${identityID}':{}}`. This was hard to work out because it was not particularly clear to me why just having `identityID` or even `{${identityID}}` wouldn't work. I eventually found source 1, which showed the required input formatting, albeit with no actual explanation for it. Source: 1 [Add a user-assigned identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-apps/managed-identity?tabs=bicep%2Cdotnet). 
- I had a few false starts where I had the paths to the container registry and image itself slightly wrong, then after that the only other issue was that I was still pointed to port 80 from the 'Hello World' placeholder image, whereas my app listens on port 5000. So once that was fixed, both the apps were working fine, using my app image (with no data just yet).

## 14/07/2026
- Installed WSL2 and Docker Desktop. I have never used these before, so there was a small amount of installation tasks and familiarisation around that.
- I made a few very minor modifications to my applications base code before I started with creating the image to make it container friendly. This included adjusting how the SQLite database is initialised and updating the requirements.txt file to include Gunicorn. This means I can upload the code here tomorrow after a final check for anything sensitive.
- Created an image of my app using `docker build` and tested locally using `docker run`. I only ran into a couple of minor issues relating to the syntax in my dockerfile, once resolved the app was running successfully with no data.
- After that, I stopped the container running, and restarted it but with my database file volume mounted instead. This ran perfectly, so the next step will be to upload the container image into Azure Container Registry and then have Container Apps run it from there. 

## 10/07/2026
- Added container app module. It just creates the Microsoft test app on both environments for now. The only real difficulty I had here was around getting the managed environment ID, because I specifically wanted to avoid tying the creation of container apps into the managed environments loop, which seemed like the easy, but wrong, way to do it. Once I got all that straightened out, I went to deploy, but it failed. I originally had this line in my code:
  
  ```managedEnvironmentId: resourceId(item.rgName, 'Microsoft.App/managedEnvironments', item.managedEnvironmentName)```

  however after the failed deployment it gave the following error:

  `"The provided value 'rg-fintrack-demo-ukwest' is not valid subscription identifier."`

  This told me that ARM obviously had an issue and needed the subscription details as well, so after some research into the right syntax, I ended up just writing the entire path of the managed environment instead, so the param ended up as:

  ```managedEnvironmentId: '/subscriptions/${subscription().subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/${item.rgName}/providers/Microsoft.App/managedEnvironments/${item.managedEnvironmentName}'```

  This also kept the data pull from the current requiredAppServices loop, rather than the requiredManagedEnvironments. This change then deployed just fine. I checked in the portal, and both container apps were live and accessible as intended. Sources: 1 [Microsoft.App containerApps 2026-01-01](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.app/2026-01-01/containerapps?pivots=deployment-language-bicep)

## 09/07/2026
- Added the missing vnetConfiguration to my managedEnvironments module. This took a long time to finally resolve because after I added that in, I ran a what-if deployment which looked fine, however then when the real deployment occured, Azure created additional resource groups with the load balancer and public IP contained within them. I initially wanted things to be in one resource group for tidiness, so I backtracked a bit and realised that I needed to use an infrastructureResourceGroup value otherwise Azure just creates one itself. I tried to put in the same resource group for the infrastructureResourceGroup as well, but that deployment failed. I learned then that the 'infrastructure' resources cannot be in the same resource group as the managed environment itself regardless. I amended my parameters file to create new 'infra' resource groups for it to use instead. The deployment still failed though. I tried multiple steps; however, after another considerable amount of time, I then learned that I just had to specify the 'name' of the new resource group only, Azure had to actually still create it itself.
- I also amended the parameters file so that all resources would have the right location and name when deployed to different regions, as I realised during doing the above, that the names were hard-coded and would be inaccurate if in future I wanted to deploy to a different region. 

## 08/07/2026
- Added vnet and subnet creation. I did this a bit more independently this time, now I have a better overall idea of how the bicep combines together. I did run my changes through Claude for a second opinion after I had wrote it. The only issue it brought up was that I had not done a delegation of the subnet to Container apps. This was not something I was aware of as I was using sources 1, 2 and 3, wheras that information I later found on source 4, but I added it in after I had read source 4. -Sources: 1 - [Microsoft Learn - Microsoft.Network virtualNetworks](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.network/virtualnetworks?tabs=bicep&pivots=deployment-language-bicep) 2 - [Microsoft Learn - Create virtual network resources by using Bicep](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/bicep/scenarios-virtual-networks) 3 - [Microsoft Learn - Provide a virtual network to an Azure Container Apps environment](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-apps/vnet-custom?tabs=bash&pivots=azure-portal) 4 - [Microsoft Learn - Virtual network configuration](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-apps/custom-virtual-networks?tabs=workload-profiles-env#subnet)
- Added container registry. When I ran a what-if deployment here, the results showed that the tags in place on the vnets would be deleted. This justifies my inclusion of the policy earlier, as they should get reapplied automatically through inheritance. -Sources: 1 - [Quickstart: Create a container registry by using a Bicep file](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/container-registry-get-started-bicep?tabs=CLI)
- Added log analytics workspaces. I left the properties faily generic right now, I can come back and amend them later if I need to. For example I have amended the data ingestion limit to 1GB for cost managaement reasons (I have noticed the warning on this on source 2, this project is small enough that this warning is not relevant). -Sources: 1 - [Microsoft.App containerApps](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.app/containerapps?pivots=deployment-language-bicep) 2 - [Set daily cap on Log Analytics workspace](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/logs/daily-cap) 3 - [Create a Log Analytics workspace](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/logs/quick-create-workspace?tabs=bicep)
- Added managed environments. This was really quite difficult to do as there was a couple of tricky syntax and data mapping hurdles. The first issue was around using the outputs of a prior module in the current module, whilst avoiding hardcoding the sequence. To overcome this I learned about lambda operators and the map operator (neither of which are something I had dealt with in my previous roles) to manipulate the output array in the way I needed. The second issue was around the log analytics workspaces shared key going to the managed environment. That flagged up some warnings in VS code, so looked into the issue a bit further and my research showed that this was not best practice and would left the key in plain text, which is obviously not ideal. My research showed that if I instead created a reference to the the existing workspace in the module, then it can securely obtain the key without it being passed insecurely, which is a far better solution. Sources: 1 - [Microsoft.App containerApps](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.app/containerapps?pivots=deployment-language-bicep) 2 - [Microsoft.App managedEnvironments 2025-07-01](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.app/2025-07-01/managedenvironments?pivots=deployment-language-bicep) 3 - [Lambda functions for Bicep](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/bicep/bicep-functions-lambda) 4 - [Use Bicep to manage secrets](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/bicep/scenarios-secrets)

## 07/07/2026
- Amended the bicep files to create tagging policy, to use a main.bicep file which can pass through parameters instead. However I then realised that this is also not quite how I would need it to be because the policy creation is dependent on resource groups already existing. They exist now in the portal, but when I tear down everything, they won't exist any more and the deployment will fail. I need to have a module for RG creation that can be called on but it needs to be scoped to a higher level than resource group.
- I have added a parameters file now to provide the array of required resource groups to create before the policy is created. I have a resourceGroups bicep file which has a singular action to create an RG using the incoming parameters, rather than any hardcoding. Then I had to tweak the policy bicep as well to get everything to link together. I realised that I could entirely delete the policy regarding setting tags at the RG level as they are being done by the bicep earlier.
- If did a what if deployment to see if it would work ok. That came back fine, but then the deployment actually failed because of timings. The fix was to add a 'dependsOn' into the policy module, so that ARM doesn't run the policy module before the relevant RG is created.
- Most of the difficulty today was just syntax related and trying to understand how reusability works in practice with Bicep. The syntax is a minor issue and one that will become natural over time with increased usage. The reusability (object based programming) is something I am very familiar with from RPA, but it slightly different using bicep files and VS code to do it. I am confident this easily reinforced with more practice.
- Sources: [Microsoft Learn - Bicep Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/bicep/)

## 04/07/2026
- Created two bicep files for tagging policy, one for each half of the project. However I quickly realised that that having individual bicep files for everything is going to get hard to manage and deploy easily, so I also did a bit of research about how bicep files are typically managed.
- In my next session I will create a main bicep file that will call the others. I'll need to amend the files that I've already made as well to fit in with that decision.

## 03/07/2026
- Created repo. 
- Created readme file - detailing what my initial build thoughts are and what I hope to achieve. 
